Ray St. Germain

Ray St. Germain( born 1940 in St. Vital area of Winnipeg, Manitoba) is a Canadian musician, author, and radio show host. He was the 2006 federal Liberal candidate for the Winnipeg Centre constituency and the presenter for the 1969 Canadian variety television series" Time for Living". He was inducted into the Canadian Country Music Hall of Honour by the Canadian Country Music Association in September 2010. St. Germain's autobiography," I Wanted to Be Elvis, So What Was I Doing in Moose Jaw?" was published by Pemmican Publications Inc. in 2005. Ray is proud to be Metis. He is a great- great nephew of Pierre St. Germain( b. 1830), a member of the 49th Rangers, the armed Metis scouts who accompanied the British- Canadian Boundary Commission when they surveyed the international boundary between Canada and the USA( 1872- 1874). Through his great- grandmother, Rose Hamelin,( b. 1857) who married to Simon St. Germain, he is a descendant of Solomon Hamelin( 1810- 1893) who was a member of the first — and only — Legislative Council of Manitoba( 1871- 1876). St. Germain is also a relative of Pierre St. Germain( 1790- 1870), a Metis voyageur of mixed Dene and French- Canadian ancestry who served for nine years with the North West Company, two and one- half years( 1819- 1822) with the first Franklin expedition and then twelve years with the Hudson ’s Bay Company. St. Germain wrote, produced, and hosted the nationally syndicated, award- winning," Big Sky Country" that aired for 13 years on Global Television. He also worked with The Aboriginal Peoples Television Network( APTN), producing and hosting the series" Rhythms of the Métis". He is also a voice actor for the children ’s series" Tipi Tales" that airs on the Treehouse Network and APTN. St. Germain has hosted over 600 television shows on CBC Television, Global Television Network, and APTN. He has been an on- air personality and program manager with NCI- FM Radio for seven years and hosts a program called the Métis Hour X2 on Saturday mornings for the Manitoba Métis Federation. St. Germain has entertained Canadian Forces stationed overseas with concerts in Germany, Israel, and Cyprus. St. Germain has received awards for his contributions to Canadian culture, including the Order of Manitoba, Aboriginal Order of Canada, the Order of the Sash – Saskatoon and Prince Albert, and a position on the Aboriginal Wall of Honour in the Winnipeg Friendship Centre. St. Germain was inducted into the Canadian Country Music Hall of Fame in 2010.