Faces of Death VI

Faces of Death VI is a 1996 direct- to- video compilation of the highlights of the earlier films in the" Faces of Death" series. It features many of the same scenes shown in" Faces of Death" 1 and 4, as well as the earlier compilation" Faces of Death V". It begins without any opening credits, before recycling( for the third time) the sequence from" Faces of Death" involving the killing of a monkey which is then prepared and served to patrons of a gourmet restaurant. Also shown for the second time are the staged heart- ripping scene by African natives and the" head in a box" scene, both taken from" Faces of Death IV". John Alan Schwartz's cameo as the leader of the flesh eating cult, as well as" The encapsulation of Samuel Berkowitz" are also featured again, and the final credits are those from" Faces of Death". " Faces of Death VI" exists in three distinct versions: 1. The widest- known version is the one that was released" unofficially" by Gorgon Video in the U.S. in 1996. It features the artwork from part four reversed. It contains clips mostly from parts one and four, and has the opening credits from part one. This is the version of" Faces of Death 6" that was released to buy or rent on video in the U.S. 2. The second is a nearly extinct mail- order only version( which" Fangoria" possibly offered in the back of old issues) that is no longer available. Most outlets online with" Faces of Death 6" to download carry this version. It has no narration, all different footage, and the title screen reads" FACES OF DEATH", and then the word" SIX" slowly becomes imposed over the text. As stated on various sites, this version is extremely washed out. Most of the scenes are almost completely white and unwatchable. At the very end of this version the" Gorgon Video" bumper begins to play but is suddenly cut off. 3. The third version is part of the German version of the series. It is titled" Gesichter Des Todes VI" and was released in 1992 on video, and subsequently DVD, in Germany in German with no English option. This version is reportedly all different footage, with no narrator. However, it is possible it is just a different" death" film re-titled. Possibly" Faces of Death: The Millennium Edition", as the images on the back of the" Gesichter Des Todes VI" DVD are from some of the same footage found on" Faces of Death: Millennium".